>> Hey, Brian. Hey, Erin. Hey, YouTube. Good to have you here. Let's kick off the show.
For those of you watching live, please put your comments and thoughts in the chat and
we'll try to make that part of the show. And if you're watching the replay, thanks for
that as well. All right. Hello, and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news
and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode 324, recorded February 21st, 2023.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
And I'm Brian Okken.
And I'm Erin Mullaney.
And this episode is brought to you by Compiler, a podcast from Red Hat. Tell you more about
them. Erin, it's awesome to have you on the show. Thanks for joining us.
Thanks for asking me to be on.
Yeah, you bet.
Excited.
tell folks a bit about yourself before we jump into the topics.
- Sure. Yeah, I'm Erin Mullaney. I've been a web developer since around the year 2000.
I currently work at Energy Solutions as a code-based lead on a Django project there,
which means that I write and review a lot of Django and Python code on a day-to-day
basis. Energy Solutions, where I work, is an energy consulting company that's mission-driven
to protect the environment through different energy things.
To be real, not specific.
I specifically work on a Django project
that facilitates energy efficiency programs.
And energy efficiency is actually a super powerful
and cost-effective way to combat climate change.
And that's according to the US Department of Energy.
- Yeah, that's awesome.
All the wasted energy and bad insulation
and other things like that.
That's really cool.
That's good work.
Really quickly before we dive into Brian's item here,
how are you feeling about Django and the recent changes?
I feel like it's picked up a lot of momentum lately.
It's picked up some new features like async stuff.
Is that exciting for you and your team?
- Yeah, for sure, it's exciting.
I am coming from a background where I was actually coding
in a different web framework for years
and switched over to Django.
So I'm just happy to hear that more and more people
are downloading it and using it.
So yeah, I just, I want it to stick around.
Cause I like it.
- Yeah, absolutely.
All right, Brian, you want to kick us off here?
- Sure.
So this one, first one's coming from Brett Cannon.
So he wrote an article called
use toml for .env files question mark.
And I, there's a, so there's the question at the end
and we'll talk about that.
But I just ran across, I mean, I don't know,
because I'm not a web developer very much,
I mean, I'm getting more so now,
but I wasn't really familiar with the .env files
until just recently.
And so one of the great things about this article
is it talks about kind of what these are.
So what these are often is you've got settings
for your application.
And there's an idea of a 12-factor app design,
which I kind of like read about many years ago
and forgot about.
But one of the ideas is you don't wanna like
have too many differences
between your development environment
and your live environment.
And one of the ways you do this
is using environmental variables
to store things like login credentials
and all that sort of junk.
And in Python, one of the ways we do that
is through .env files
and also through a project called python.env,
which is used by Pydantic and a lot of other projects.
And what this does is it allows you
to have defaults in there.
So you have, so in your development environment,
you might have something silly, some silly credentials,
but then, or, you know, look him up somewhere,
but then in your live environment,
those are actually set by the production server
to set those secrets.
And so the question really is, what's the format of this?
So, and I kind of never really thought about it before.
And basically the problem is it's not defined.
And it's in--
- There is a text file that has secrets.
- Yeah, and it's kind of like Bash-ish files or something.
It's by the, it's a format that's not formally specified
and improves over time, according to the Python.inv readme.
But that's not really, what does that mean?
It kind of means it's your application
so that you can define it however you want, right?
But maybe we should have some standardization.
So Brett was looking further into this.
And one of the solutions that Adafruit came up with
was let's not use .env,
but actually just do a settings.toml.
It's used for the same thing,
to store secrets such as passwords and API keys.
So they're using toml.
And then basically kind of when you just do
a normal simple toml file,
it looks pretty much like a normal,
any other .env file that people have used.
So really that's the question that Brett is posing is,
can we just standardize on this?
Why don't we just, you know,
standardized.env as .toml, as toml format.
And I think, why not?
Mostly it'll work for everybody already.
And then you can do cool things if we did toml.
You could extend it a bit.
So like in the VS Code code base,
they're talking about like using categories
and specific table to hit.
You'd have multiple tables in there
instead of just the global one.
But what do you think?
- I think that's a cool idea.
I like the ability to have multiple things like test
and maybe dev or like a connection string
to a database or something.
It wouldn't make me sad if it was JSON as well.
I know Aaron is going to make a cameo for JSON later.
But Toml seems to be winning on these things.
And I would be OK with Toml as well.
So Aaron, you do web development.
Do you use dot EMV files or this sort of a setting?
- We use settings.
We, yeah, we don't use dot EMV files.
We have, we do have local settings, but yeah, no.
- Cool, I'm not really a Django developer.
So maybe is it built into Django
to have some solution for this?
- We, yeah, I'd have to like, I'm not a,
I get it running on my machine and then I go
- And I code, yeah.
So all the OS stuff.
Yeah, all the OS stuff is not, yeah.
It's not stuff I worry about
unless I'm installing a new requirement or something.
- Yeah, Django does have its way of managing settings
that predates this stuff, I believe as well.
- All right.
- Yeah, that makes sense.
- Well, Michael, should we switch to pedantic?
- I have some crazy news for you.
Yeah, let's do it.
First, huge, huge congrats over to Samuel Colvin.
And I've had him on the show to talk about Pydantic before.
Pydantic is one of the more exciting libraries,
I think, especially in the API space,
but also Python bytes itself is powered by Beanie,
the MongoDB ORM or ODM.
And that is, uses Pydantic models
as its validation and an exchange,
like the things that are mapped to MongoDB are
Pydantic classes.
So here's the news.
The Sequoia, like one of the biggest VC firms in California,
in the world probably,
backs open source data validation Pydantic
to commercialize with cloud services.
That's crazy, huh?
- Yeah, wow.
- We are a long way from the buy me a coffee,
donate PayPal button that you see on the various projects
in this.
And I think it's just a sign of the open source space finding
its way to support really successful projects
and to support people whose time and energy and contributions
to the world would be better spent to further this library
than, say, potentially, well, how can we get 1% of 1%
increase on ad clicks by using my library or something like that, you know,
working for like companies that don't necessarily contribute so much.
So some of the highlights here, you'll notice when I said we're a long ways
from buying me a cup of coffee, Pydantic Services Incorporated emerges from stealth
today with 4.7 million in seed funding.
Wow.
So wait, coffee, that is a lot of coffee.
You could have, that's like coffee for life.
Some of that fancy kind, you know,
the weird, weird variations and stuff.
Yeah, anyway, so there's, it's not just Sequoia,
it's Pear Tech, it's Irregular Expressions,
it's Zapier co-founder, Brian Helmig,
who's also been on, talked about them before,
and some other folks, co-founder of Sentry,
David Kramer, so on.
So let me see, I wrote down some of the highlights
out of this whole article that I wanted to hit on.
First of all, also this comes from Mark Little,
who was a guest on show 285 and also a friend of mine.
So thanks Mark for sending that in.
The new, the whole, so you might be wondering,
okay, well, 4.7 million is amazing.
It's a lot of support.
It means Pydantic is only gonna get better and stronger,
but what the heck are you gonna get for your 4.7 million?
So the idea is that this new commercial entity,
it'll incorporate a bunch of tools and services
that are powered by and inspired by the Pydantic library.
And from what I can tell, is its primary goal
is to make Pydantic really, really good further.
There's already this big project for 2.0,
for rewriting the core in Rust.
This is the last time I had Samuel on the show
on Talk Python to talk about that,
which is gonna make it a lot faster.
But something a little bit akin to a platform as a service,
something a little bit like a Heroku,
where you can push Python code to production in simple ways,
but using the validation and the data exchange
and the understanding that Pydantic has for data
as part of this.
So final thing, and I'll get y'all's thoughts on this,
is you're going to start with an initial team of six.
The first three engineers are based in Montana, Chicago,
and Berlin, various places.
And so, yeah, I wish all the luck to the Pydantic team
and to Samuel and folks, I think this is great.
Real thing.
- I think this is great.
I like the conversion to Rust.
That's pretty exciting.
- Yeah.
- How's this sit with you?
Is this surprising?
- No, it's cool.
It's very cool.
I mean, I'm just Googling it
because I didn't research it this talk,
but yeah, it sounds like it can be used
with any Python based framework.
- Yeah, it came out of FastAPI.
And it plays many important roles in FastAPI.
It's the data validation.
It's also the type hence that does
the automatic data conversion,
but it also drives like the swagger,
open API documentation and all of those things.
But it's been used way, way more places,
for example, like Gini, which I mentioned,
or SQL model and plenty of others.
And it's just starting to gain a ton of momentum
as a really solid data exchange for Python
that's not directly talking to databases.
So yeah, it should be good to see it grow.
- So initial--
- What does that mean not directly talking to databases?
Meaning it just reads what comes back from the API
and validates that?
- Basically, we'll take any JSON,
or if you could take a Toml document,
you could turn it into a Python dictionary,
then you could pass that on and have it validated.
So you could say things like,
this class has a list, which is a list of orders,
and there can be no more than three orders in the list,
and they have to be orders,
and this thing has to be a number,
and just all that kind of logic
gets expressed in the model there.
So, yeah, yeah, that's cool.
- So one, just I guess a random thing,
So it's a team of six, first three engineers
based in Montana, Chicago, or Berlin.
Wonder who's in Montana.
And I guess if you had to choose
one of three places to live,
would you choose Montana, Chicago, or Berlin?
- Gosh, I could--
- Think I'd go with Berlin, but--
- I could make a case for Montana or Berlin.
They're both awesome in their own separate ways.
Like, what's your spare time look like, I guess?
- I do love the theaters in Chicago.
The theaters in Chicago are beautiful.
- I do too.
But I'm thinking of motorcycle riding for days in Montana
and the cities and all that stuff in Berlin.
Erin, where would you live?
- Man, between those, that's really a hard choice.
I moved to North Carolina for shorter winters.
So it seems like Chicago would be out for that reason
'cause they have even longer--
- Montana might really be out.
- Winters, yeah.
So I would need to research what had the shortest winter.
But I don't know.
- Yeah, that's a good one.
- I think Berlin's gonna be your veg.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, all right, awesome.
Well, over to you.
What's your first topic?
- Okay, cool.
Yeah, and I just wanted to go back to the TAML topic
because I kind of froze on that one.
So we are using a YAML file for our local settings,
not a TAML file.
I haven't actually seen TAML before.
I don't really know how different looking it is.
But yeah, I think it's gonna be a good topic.
- Yeah, I think it's gonna be a good topic.
- Yeah.
But yeah, and settings are kind of baked into Django
for outside of the local environment stuff.
- Cool.
- But yeah, so my next, so my topic was,
my first topic is JSON fields for performance
and thinking about JSON fields in terms of what they are,
which is kind of like denormalized data.
I'm really interested in the topic of normalization
and denormalization and specifically how JSON fields
are basically denormalized and mutable data
that's probably living in an otherwise normalized database.
So I was interested in this topic
and I searched to see if I could find it anywhere online.
And yeah, so what we're showing here is,
this was a talk given by David Stokes at PHP UK in 2019,
called "How Denormalizing Your Data with JSON
Can Boost Query Performance."
I always miss do you guys pronounce it Jason or Jason and I'm sure you've talked about this before I
Guess I had no I say J Jason like on top. Yeah. Yeah
Brian, what do you like the name Jason?
Yeah, it it is. It's like it's the name according to the creator. It is Jason. Okay, it's
But I will mispronounce it a lot
And it stands for JavaScript Objects Notation.
But yeah, I think my Philly comes out
'cause I'm always saying JSON.
So yeah, so David Stokes gave this talk.
He is a technology evangelist,
and a lot of the talk was about MySQL
as a backend in particular.
But the parts of the talk that I found really interesting
are the history lesson,
and I kind of have it highlighted here.
It starts at around minute 250,
where he talked about how Edgar Codd at IBM
developed the idea of a relational data
because hardware was expensive at the time.
So having relational tables and normalized data
was a way to not have duplication of data.
And normalized data, just a quick definition is like,
or example is like taking an address
and breaking it down into parts.
So experts had been saying for years at this point,
like normalizing data is the way to go.
You wanna normalize your data.
And then during this history talk,
you mentioned that then no SQL came in and shook things up.
And after that, SQL added JSON data types
for immutable data type.
So you don't have to define and normalize
your whole database, you can kind of have
these mutable fields.
So, okay.
So anyway, the history lesson,
I just found that super interesting as a data person.
Do you guys find that interesting at all?
I do.
- I do, yeah.
I think that this concept of mutable schema,
not that mutable data per se,
but that the schema itself doesn't have to be as controlled
and that's strictly guarded by a DBA
that goes through some giant process
to figure out what you do,
can add a ton of flexibility
to the way that you evolve your app.
So there doesn't necessarily have to be a DBA.
It could be like, well, how are we going to
schedule the downtime so that we can do
the schema migration as we roll out this new feature?
those kinds of things can get challenging.
If you roll out the code first,
and it's some kind of relational thing,
you're using SQLAlchemy or something like that,
it's gonna crash saying that the code
doesn't match the database.
If you roll out the database first,
it may no longer match what the code that's running is.
And there's always this, well, what do I do?
And having some of this more mutable schema,
in this case, they're talking about MySQL,
I believe it's basically the same for Postgres,
where you can have columns that are JSON,
and then you can, you just say to the database,
the schema is JSON, but your code knows,
well, it's actually a list of these things
with these properties in it.
And you want to add a new property?
Great, you add a new property.
As long as your code can deal with it, super.
So I think it's certainly something people should consider.
It really adds a lot of flexibility.
You don't need necessarily a normalization table
because you can just put the stuff in a list, for example.
- Yeah, and not only flexibility,
but also quicker querying.
So yeah, so I really liked starting at around minute 14,
which is, this is what I was kind of looking for
when I was looking for this topic.
So I really liked that he gave this talk about it.
He goes over an example of a music store
and you have these items in a music store like guitars
and you don't wanna have to add field
every time there's a new guitar feature, right?
So you have these JSON fields in your database.
And like you said,
they're available in lots of different backends.
We use Postgres and yeah,
we use JSON fields all over the place.
So, and he has this really cool diagram where he shows,
you know, reducing database dives and many to many joins,
where you're diving from, you know,
one index into another into another
to just to get at the data that you can get
at the top level if you have it in this JSON field.
- Right, you don't have to do a multi-way
many to many join when it's just in there directly, right?
'Cause you have more flexibility.
It doesn't have to be tabular, yeah.
- Yeah, so I found it really cool.
We use JSON fields in one of our big Django projects
quite a bit and yeah, our data is totally,
our schemas are normalized.
but we find it really helpful also for reporting,
making reporting really, really fast
because of that database dive that you don't need to do.
And also for tracking snapshots of data.
So something happened on this date
and then the relational record changed,
but the JSON gives you the snapshot
of what the user did on that date.
So that's really useful too. - Right, that's a good point.
If the snapshot doesn't match the current schema,
well then, how are you going to store it?
That gets to be a problem.
But JSON is JSON.
That's right.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
I guess I've taken this to the far extreme in my world.
So I'm a huge advocate,
but I do almost all my work on MongoDB,
which means it's all JSON.
All the way down, right?
But I think it's an absolutely fabulous way to work.
I love it.
The operational side of not doing massive migrations
all the time. It's really, really good.
Yeah. And I'm actually working on a blog, a blog article about it because I
couldn't find what I specifically wanted to talk about today.
So I'm writing up a blog article. It's not published.
It'll be published next month. But yeah, I'll share it later with you guys.
Yeah. Yeah, please do. And I think that's, I think that's a great,
actually a great thing for people to do is just,
there's a discussion of something and if you can't find
an article that expresses what you want to express,
then write one.
It's great.
- Yep.
Indeed, all right, Brian.
How about I tell everyone about our sponsor
before we move on?
- Oh, that's a great idea.
- Yeah.
As I said at the beginning,
this episode is brought to you by
the Compiler Podcast from Red Hat.
And just like you out there listening,
we're big fans of podcasts, Brian and I.
And we're happy to share one of the most highly respected,
one from the most highly respected
open source companies, Compiler,
original podcast from Red Hat.
It brings together a curious team of Red Hatters
to simplify tech topics,
provide insight for new generation IT professionals.
And the show covers topics like
what are the components of a software stack?
Are big mistakes that big of a deal?
And do you have to know how to code to contribute
and get started in open source?
Hint, not always, depends on how you're trying to contribute.
So Compiler closes the gap between those
who are new to technology and those behind the inventions
and services shaping our world.
And they bring together stories and perspectives
from the industry and simplify its language, culture,
and movements in a way that's fun, informative,
and guilt-free.
I recently listened to "Are We As Productive As We Think?"
And that episode is really fun.
There's a bunch of good advice in there
As a developer, owner of a tech company,
and a technologist, these productivity hacks,
such as time boxing, focusing on one task at a time,
and incorporating intentional breaks into your workday
all stood out as super relevant.
They suggest that by creating an honest self-image
of your productivity habits and being intentional
about how you spend your time,
you can reduce the overwhelm of multitasking
that you have to do and increase your focus
and creativity leading to you being more successful,
for sure.
So learn more about Compiler at pythonbytes.fm/compiler.
The link is in your podcast show notes.
Thanks to Compiler and Red Hat
for keeping this podcast going strong.
Indeed.
- Awesome. - All right.
Yeah, thanks.
Fun show.
And tell us, you gonna take us to school, Brian?
- Yeah, so Kevin Markham, who's a friend of the show,
friend of ours ran into him a lot during when when I was going to conferences
more that's hopefully coming up again. What are those? Conferences, you know
people get together in real life. But so Kevin took a little bit of a break
he's a he used to write a lot and I hadn't I guess I hadn't noticed but
there's a break between August of 2021 and then now in February of 2023 so a
So a couple of your break and we all need that.
That's fine.
But these articles are great.
So a couple of new articles that he has,
I'm gonna pop through a couple of them.
How to use f-strings with pandas.
So basically it's a good discussion of f-strings.
If you're not comfortable with f-strings already,
this is a good intro to why f-strings are great
to pop in values.
I don't know if it's really that panda specific,
but one of the things I really loved,
although popped up my favorite part of this article.
So, and I forget to do this,
so I'm glad that he points these out.
So one of the things is you can,
it's not just taking a value and putting it in brackets
so that you can print it, but you can do,
it's an expression in the brackets.
So you can call like upper for a name variable
so that you can print it in uppercase
and not have to do that before you pass it to the F string.
Or you could do things like a little bit of math.
So if you've got like his example had days completed
and he did like 365 minus that divided by,
so you get a percentage.
So this is pretty cool to think.
Remember if the only place you're gonna use the value
is within the string,
you could just do it within the expression.
So this is a good one.
The part that it really, never really occurred to me to do
that I wanted to highlight was
He had different columns of data within a data frame
and referencing them with a string index
and then using fstring to pick the index within a loop.
And it never occurred to me to use fstrings
to generate the index for a string index.
This is a cool idea.
- Yeah, that is wild.
I like it.
The other article is a fly through of Jupyter keyboard
shortcuts.
And I guess I just have to say I'm a huge fan of the rocket
emoji.
>> I wonder why.
>> Yeah.
But this is not overwhelming.
So especially for people that use--
I mean, if you use it a lot and you don't know keyboard
shortcuts, this would be a good intro.
But people like me that just pop in,
use it every once in a while for something.
These are useful just for those people, too.
It's not an overwhelming list.
There's some great stuff, like just hitting Escape and Enter
to go back and forth between Command Mode and Edit Mode,
for instance.
And then I'm going to tell you, you're
going to remember this one, A and B for Create a Cell
Above or Below the Current Cell.
So these are just some really great little Jupyter tricks
to make yourself more productive and not
have to touch the mouse as much.
So anyway, some good, good things.
I think it's great.
I wish actually Jupyter had more hotkeys.
They're really, there's really a lot more they could do there, but knowing the
ones that are there, I think is pretty excellent.
yeah, for me, I often try to use Vim shortcuts and it's just, it doesn't work.
It's not going to have it.
Erin, what are your thoughts here?
the F string articles really was really nice.
Yeah, it's just, it's hard to find a good F-string article
that tells you all these different things you can do.
So I was just scanning through it
and we use f-strings quite a bit.
And if we have old format Python strings
that are in the code that we're updating in a pull request,
we always ask the developer
to please update those old ones to use f-strings as well.
- Oh, that's a good idea.
- They're just so much more readable.
- As you're going through it, go ahead and fix them.
- Yeah, yeah, instead of like fixing them all,
just go through and fix the ones that you're touching.
- Does PyUpgrade do that or I can't remember.
- I can tell you that Flint does.
- Flint, yeah, that's it.
- Flint.
So I've taken Flint and run it against
large projects that I've done in it.
In the early days, it introduced one bug
out of 20,000 lines of code,
but it rewrote like a thousand print
or string formats of various versions
and I found it to be really helpful.
- And that's F-L-Y-N-T.
- Yeah, F-L-Y-N-T.
- For the podcast listeners.
- Exactly.
Yeah, so this is really good too.
If you ask people to do that, you could suggest like,
and you could try just running this on your code to start
and just make sure it doesn't break anything.
But it's been pretty stable since the oddities it hit.
- Oh, that's cool.
We'll check that out.
Cool.
- Indeed.
All right, Brian, you all done with yours?
- Yeah.
And I just did look it up.
I think the PyUpgrade also does it.
- Oh no.
Anthony Lister out there in the audience
is just trying to egg us on.
Single quotes or double quotes with those f-strings?
- See last episode.
- Yeah, exactly.
That's a whole debate last episode.
All right.
My next item is BioGPT.
So we've heard about ChatGPT, and this is similar stuff but applied to biology.
So Brian said you had to--
>> I created a cat that barks.
>> Exactly.
And now make it mutate into a snake.
How many generations will this take?
Three.
All right.
So I want to just as a way to, you know, it's not really easy for me to demo this.
So like, let me as a way of motivation,
just show you like a chat TV thing,
since you were just asking about Brian.
So check this out.
Here's a cool program that talks about
how you should never write insanely nested code.
You should instead use, so the people listening,
this is like, it says, is this a platypus?
If self.isManual, and then if self.hasFert,
then if self.hasBeak and so on and so on,
it's like nested over, so the code starts in the middle,
maybe a bit to the right of the screen.
And it says return true, right?
Like you shouldn't do that.
What should you do?
You should write guarding clauses.
So check this out, Brian.
If I go over to chat GP and I say,
I'm going to give you a program in Python.
I want you to name it Arrow.
And it'll say, sure, Arrow sounds like a great name.
And I give it this.
And it talks about what it does.
It checks whether it's a platypus
and say, "Rewrite arrow to be less nested
"using guarding clauses."
Britainly, here you go, it says.
And what is it right?
Exactly, the new pattern that you should have used.
Is that insane?
What do you think, Brian, Aaron?
- I wouldn't write the code like this anyway, but okay.
All right, now, that--
so arrow checks for a platypus.
Plat, plat, plat--
that's it.
Whatever.
Oh, here, hold on.
Platypus.
Rewrite it to check for crocodiles.
So sure, no problem.
We're going to write, is it a crocodile?
The tests are, is it a reptile?
Has scales?
Does it have jaws?
Does it have a four chamber heart?
- Wow.
- Is that insane?
And all I did is I'm gonna give you this code
and just start asking questions.
So, okay.
So impressive, right?
So back to bio GPT.
Think of what this can do for doctors and nurses
and people trying to understand like written text of this.
So this BioGPT contains an implementation
specifically trained for medical analysis.
Kind of like ChatGP is a general analysis tool,
this one is specifically for medicine.
- Okay.
- So pretty cool.
Apparently it can do PubMedQA tests.
I have no idea what that is,
but if I was a doctor, I'm sure this is like,
I'll get you interesting questions,
with 81% accuracy, which might sound like,
well, that's 19% not good enough,
but I bet you doctors don't do it at 100% accuracy either.
There's a lot of examples where AI is predicting cancer
sooner or better or more accurately than--
- Right, and I bet it's better than Dr. Google
and looking up your symptoms and thinking
you have the worst thing.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
- Well, that's what I was curious about,
if it was named like, what am I dying of today?
(laughing)
- Will I die GPT?
- I don't know.
- Oh, it seems grumpy, I don't know.
So it comes with different models.
It has the bio GPT one, but it also has the large one.
And my experience with this stuff is
the large models are where it's at.
The regular ones are quick, but they're not very accurate.
You wanna go for the large model.
So there's a bunch of different ones,
like one trained for fine-tuned for relation extraction task
on KD DTI, which is a certain type of data set or other ones.
So you can pick which ones it is.
And then you just start writing Python code.
So you can either use a PyTorch-style programming,
or I think down here there's a hugging face variant as well.
So it's a little bit cleaner, a little bit nicer.
So he just, your model is from pre-trained
Microsoft slash bio GPT.
And there's even a thing where you can try it out down here.
There's like a live, yeah, some answering questions.
For example, he can pull this up
and you can ask it questions.
For example, this one,
should chest wall irradiation be included after...
Yes, it's just yes.
I don't know, people can play around with the examples.
Like I said, I'm not a doctor.
I don't really know reasonable things to ask it,
but it's a weird world that we live in
and it has lots of positives and lots of negatives,
I'm sure, that we're gonna come to learn about,
but BioGPT, if you're working on analyzing medical texts,
check this out, it's from Microsoft.
- I think anything that would reduce the amount of time
doctors and medical professionals have to spend
on the computer is probably good.
So if this means they need to enter less things in
because it's just like figuring stuff out for them,
then that would be really powerful.
But if it's just another tool that they have to use
on the internet that makes them not get to be face to face
with their patients, then I'm just kind of skeptical of it.
- Yeah, I feel like you could ask it questions like,
we gave this person, here's their symptoms,
we gave them this diagnosis,
is that consistent with historical things?
and they could do a lot of comparisons and analysis.
Or do you think this person has this disease?
Instead of just yes or no,
it's like, why do you think that?
You know, you could have this conversation with it
and it may be able to tell you.
- Yeah, that's really cool.
- Indeed.
All right.
- Well, I guess I was joking about it a little bit,
but I think there's a lot of power there.
I mean, like you said, I don't know,
if we can get doctors actually seeing people more,
but also maybe a 911 call could like,
if we determine it's not an emergency yet,
but maybe we could direct the person
to the right place faster.
I mean, there's lots of places where maybe somebody
not with like the full degree,
but somebody that's still like pretty involved
with medicine can utilize this to ask better questions
and get somebody to somewhere faster.
- Right, or even highlight,
what were the key takeaways from this visit with the doctor?
Yeah.
Right?
So anyway, it's cool.
Yep.
All right.
One more bit of feedback out there.
Will McGugan.
Hey, Will.
This is the kind of thing I'd like to see from AI used for not putting artists
and copywriters out of business.
Yeah, I agree.
Amplifying people's good work, not necessarily replacing it.
Yeah.
See where it goes.
All right.
Erin, got the last one?
Oh, OK.
Great.
So yeah, talking about code mentorship
and communicating with new developers,
that's my next topic.
So Sheena O'Connell gave a talk at DjangoCon last year.
I attended that conference, but I missed this talk
and watched it online later.
And it's about her work at Muzi,
training unemployed young people
in underserved communities in Africa.
So her company had to quickly build
an online learning management system
when the pandemic hit in 2020.
And they built that LMS in Django,
which is why she was giving a talk at DjangoCon.
Before then, the learning was all done in person.
So anyway, you might think like, that's cool and all,
but how can I apply that to me?
And I think that this talk is really excellent.
I also think, I don't know if you all have ever listened
to the Django chat podcast, they had Sheena on
and she talked about her work at Umuze
and she talked about getting learners to review each other
and also teaching green developers how to use GitHub
and things like that so they don't quote,
bother their teammates too much once they get
into their jobs after they're finished at Umuze.
And she specifically said, the quote I liked was,
What sort of thing does a person need to know
in order to not annoy their coworkers
in the first three months?
So I really liked thinking about the learning in that way.
And yeah, so something we started doing recently
where I work is we had been doing code reviews,
me and the other code-based lead
had been kind of just doing them all ourselves.
And our project manager, Matt, suggested we take,
we have a new requirement where two non-code-based leads
have to review any pull request
before any code-based lead looks at it.
So that's something we just implemented.
And have either of you have familiarity
with pull requests and code reviews in your day-to-day?
- Yes.
(laughing)
- Yeah, so I have to say it's really like
been really helpful to us.
and I liked Sheena talking about that
on the Django chat podcast.
She also mentioned that at Umuzee,
the learners review each other.
So someone who is further along in her course
gets to both learn how to review code
and also review someone else's answer.
Because with Python,
there are a lot of different correct answers, right?
So just like reactivating that part of their brain
to look back at a previous answer is kind of cool.
Yeah.
- I also think that it's cool that
they're learning more than just loops, variables, functions,
but how to coexist as a teammate in a software team.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, that's cool.
- Yeah, so we're always looking for new ways
to like onboard developers.
And another cool idea that Sheena had was
writing half solutions and leaving gaps
for others to fill in the blank.
I thought that was kind of cool
because when we onboard a new developer to our code base,
it can be really rocky.
And I kind of thought like, oh, that might be kind of neat.
Instead of giving them a whole ticket to work on,
like half finishing the ticket
and like letting them fill in the other blanks.
This is kind of cool.
And just one more article that I found about this
was on the Cactus blog.
I used to work at Cactus as a Django developer there.
And so I still follow their blog quite often.
And they had this recent blog post
from Dimitri Chukin about their new internal mentorship
program there, where they have three different paths.
And one is apprenticeship for folks just starting out as developers.
One is for fellowship, and that's for people who are currently training in one of those coding camps.
And then the third one, which is really kind of special, is mentorship for high school students.
So I thought that was kind of neat.
We're still, where I work, we're still figuring out how to onboard people.
I feel like that is one of the hardest things.
Do you both know what I'm talking about?
- Onboarding is extremely difficult
and it depends on how much,
well it depends on the skill set you need people to have.
I mean, when you have a diverse set of skills,
we always face that.
So I need somebody that knows both Python well,
testing practices well, C++ well,
and it'd be great if they also knew RF measurements
and stuff like that, and you just can't find those people.
So you have to pick where you want somebody
to complement somebody else with
and know that you're going to have to help train.
>> They support them in the other areas, yeah.
>> Yeah. >> Yeah, cool.
>> And one of the things you mentioned, like code reviews,
we use code reviews a lot for communication,
not necessarily for people to catch
what somebody else is doing wrong,
but to make sure that everybody understands
what the rest of the team is working on.
So we, especially for long-running things,
we have a practice of using draft code reviews.
So code reviews and drafts so that,
and GitLab won't let you merge it
if it says draft in the title.
So then people can just keep updating that
and then they can get feedback even when it's not ready,
when the code's not ready yet.
So good way to do that.
- Yeah. - Cool.
Well, nice find, Aaron.
All right. - Nice.
- That's all of our items.
Brian, you got some extras for us to share?
Anything else you want to throw out there real quick?
- No, I spent most of my extra time
getting my talk ready for PyCascades.
So PyCascades is coming up soon.
- Yeah, indeed.
Coming up very soon.
Excellent.
Erin, how about you?
Want to throw anything out there?
- Yeah, DjangoCon US is in Durham,
which is 15 minutes from where I live.
So I'm excited.
- Nice.
- North Carolina is a fun place to visit.
It's generally warm, although not always warm,
but generally warmer than a lot of places.
Generally warmer and it's in October, so it'll be kind of a nice time of year, probably.
Hopefully not boiling hot, but yeah, probably not.
Cool.
I'll have to try to see if I can get an excuse to get out there. That'd be fun.
All right, excellent. Anything else?
Is that it?
How about you?
Yeah, I got one.
You know I do.
All right, so an article came out a few days ago.
security researchers uncover 700 malicious open source packages on npm and PyPI.
This used to be a thing that could even headline.
I think we even headlined in like was the title of one of our shows, Brian.
The news here is not this.
The news is that this stuff is just not news anymore.
So people be careful out there when you pip install stuff.
Make sure you spell it right.
That's like the that's generally the worst thing is the typo squatting.
So anyway, the fact that this is not really true.
I didn't realize that that's how they were.
Oh, that's so smart.
- Like I put a virus in request instead of requests
with the plural, you know what I mean?
Or if you transpose two letters
and there's some stuff that the PIPA is trying to do
to support that, but it's still tricky.
- Or standard lib stuffs that you don't have to install.
It's just there, people spot on that.
- Right, right.
Yeah, and create a package for that.
All right, that's not the end of it.
Another one, Brian, do you remember I announced,
hey everybody, update your Git.
There's a security vulnerability in Git.
This is the first time this has happened
in a really long time.
- Yeah.
- Make sure you apply Git,
or you install 2.39.1 or higher.
Well, guess what?
2.39.1 has a vulnerability that's completely different.
But if you try to clone from a malicious repository,
you're gonna be having a bad day.
So update your Git again.
All right.
And then also, I'm working on a project now
where I needed an ignore file,
but the project was originally created in one language
and I wanted the ignore file for another
and I was basically going to combine them.
So maybe you all know this, maybe you two know this,
but GitHub, when you go to create a new project,
you can choose what kind of project is it.
Is it C++?
Is it Python?
Is it Dart?
Flutter and you'll get a different ignore for that. Well, there's actually a
repo github.com/github/gitignore and every single language that you could
have chosen that drop down has its ignore file here. So for example the
Python one, this it's checked into this project so when you say create a new
Python project what comes out as the ignore is actually this file. So if
if there's people out there who really need a change
to the default behavior of the Python
get ignore for projects, you know,
you could go to a PR for this,
but the way I use it is I just said,
I also need one on Flutter or there's not a Flutter one,
but there's a Dart one.
So I grabbed the one for Dart and piled that in there as well.
- You just add it to,
or even if you're not using GitHub, you can use this for.
- Yeah, exactly.
It has nothing to do with GitHub.
It's just, you have access to every version
of an ignore file that GitHub thinks is good.
Related to that is gitignore.io.
This is another one you come down here
and search for other stuff.
Like for example, there was no Flutter,
but in the GitHub one, but over here I can put Flutter.
And here's my Flutter one for all the crazy build
code generation madness you get.
So this is a project by TopTile,
but gitignore.io and you just put it in here.
I'm looking for whatever.
And then it'll pull up.
- Let's see, type pytest, see if it'll do.
No results. - No results found.
Oh, oh, sad.
Sad face.
But anyway, if you're looking for ignores for projects,
there you go.
Those are kind of nice.
- Cool, nice.
- All right, are you all ready for a joke?
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- Brian, I thought about you on this one in particular,
so we'll see what you think of it.
So this is one, it's a cartoon,
and it has a cartoon character looking at two red buttons.
They're both gonna do something massive.
One has the star asterisk character
and one has the ampersand.
And there's the person there just sweating out,
like their fingers in the middle,
doesn't know which one to pick.
And it said, my C code isn't working.
No one involves pointers.
What do you think, Brian?
- I would not hire this person.
- So the star will dereference the pointer,
turning a pointer into one less level of pointing
and do a value where the ampersand will take a variable
and make it a pointer, or if it is a pointer,
make it a pointer to a pointer or even more so.
Which one do you press?
Oh my gosh.
- Should be obvious by context.
- It says a C++.
(laughing)
Erin, do you have to do any of this kind of crazy stuff
or are you thankfully above and beyond the pointer world?
- I am, yeah, thankfully not.
Yeah, no C++ in my world.
- Yeah.
All right, well, that's what I got.
I brought that one for you, Brian.
- That's good, thanks.
I'll incorporate that into my next interview.
- You need to change a string, you're given a variable.
Which one of these do you push?
All right. - Nice, all right.
- Cool, all right.
Well, Erin, it's been great to have you on the show.
Thanks for being here.
- Thanks for having me.
Nice to meet you both.
- Yeah, you bet.
And Brian, thanks as always.
- See you.
- Bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]